Title: Perltuts - Interactive Perl tutorials
Tags: Perl, tutorials

Let me introduce to you the L<http://perltuts.com>, a website with interactive
Perl tutorials where you can run the code in your browser!

[cut] How does it work

=head2 Tutorials

The tutorials themselves are just POD documents that are imported into the
database. When the webpage is rendered all the code is transformed into editable
textarea elements with L<CodeMirror|http://codemirror.net/>. When you click the
C<Run> button an ajax call is performed sending the code to the evaluator, which
gives back C<stdout>, C<stderr> and test results if they were present.

=head2 Evaluator

Evaluator is a simple daemon that runs on a virtual machine, it accepts the
code, builds the Perl package and evals it capturing the output with
L<Capture::Tiny>. It does some timeout checking and fork limiting of course.

The virtual machine (C<qemu> Debian image) allows you to run a real Perl code on
a real machine. This can be used when writing advanced tutorials including IO,
networking, forks etc (I tried L<Safe> but wanted more freedom). It is reset
every hour from a snaphot. 

=head2 Exercises

Exercises are just the code where output after evaluation is run against the
prebuilt L<Test::More> package. The tests can be as sofisticated as needed.

=head2 Books

You may have noticed there are some Perl books presented. I've collected the
latest editions, so the beginners can pick the up-to-day Perl books easily
(there is an article about the
L<books|http://showmetheco.de/articles/2012/7/perl-and-friends-books-publications-statistics.html>
btw).

=head2 Want to get involved?

Sure, see the L<Get Involved|http://perltuts.com/get_involved> page!

Maybe you've already seen L<http://learnpython.org> or L<http://rubymonk.com>.
Perltuts is something like that, but for Perl! Of course it's still in progress,
there is only one basic and not complete tutorial, but I just want to have the
feedback as early as possible.

Let me know what you think!
