Title: YAPC::Europe 2013 in Kiev, week minus 41. Venues
Tags: Perl, yapc, yapc::europe, venue

As I am in the org team of the next YAPC::Europe in Kiev, I have some news about
the venues. I have been visiting all the previous selected 7 venues and 2 new
that we found on the way. Not an easy task I should say. So here is my report.

[cut]

## Ukrainian House

<div>
    <div style="text-align:center">
    <img src="/images/venue/ukrdim.jpg" />
    </div>
</div>

[Ukrainian House](http://www.ukrdim.org.ua/) is a nice huge city-centered place,
it has the best view actually. The only downside is price :) We really want to
get this place, so we are trying out different strategies of balancing the
budget.

## MasterClass

<div>
    <div style="text-align:center">
    <img src="/images/venue/masterklass.jpg" />
    </div>
</div>

[MasterClass](http://masterklass.org/eng) is a nice venue near historical
center, but it doesn't have enough space to accept and feed 300 visitors.

## President Hotel

<div>
    <div style="text-align:center">
    <img src="/images/venue/president-hotel.jpg" />
    </div>
</div>

[President Hotel](http://www.president-hotel.com.ua/en/) is one the most
expensive hotels in Kiev, so the price is corresponding. And it's not very easy
to reach with the public transportation.

## Parus Business Center

<div>
    <div style="text-align:center">
    <img src="/images/venue/parus.jpg" />
    </div>
</div>

[Parus Business Center](http://www.parus.biz/) is pretty close to the center
(10-15min walk). When I visited this venue the office manager even asked me
'Perl? Does anyone still program on it?'. I laughed and kindly explained him
that YES, WE DO!

## European University

<div>
    <div style="text-align:center">
    <img src="/images/venue/european-university.jpg" />
    </div>
</div>

[European University](http://www.e-u.in.ua/eng/) is a great place but somewhat
distant from the city center. Also the halls are on different floors.

## Hotel Bratislava

<div>
    <div style="text-align:center">
    <img src="/images/venue/hotel-bratislava.jpg" />
    </div>
</div>

[Hotel Bratislava](http://www.bratislava.com.ua/?lang=en). Unfortunately I
coudn't see any of the halls, because it was under renovation. Also it is on
another side of the river.

## NSC Olimpiyskiy

<div>
    <div style="text-align:center">
    <img src="/images/venue/nsc.jpg" />
    </div>
</div>

[NSC Olimpiyskiy](http://nsc-olimpiyskiy.com.ua/en/). This is the main football
stadium in Ukraine. It'd be great to have a conference here, unfortunately is it
overpriced and very dependent on the local football games. We could end up with
canceling the conference.

<div>
    ## Hotel Rus

    <div style="text-align:center">
    <img src="/images/venue/hotel-rus.jpg" />
    </div>
</div>

[Hotel Rus](http://www.hotelrus.kiev.ua/en.html). This hotel has a great name.
Rus is the name of the medieval polity in Europe which used to unite many slavic
tribes. And Kiev was the capital. This hotel has a big hall that can be divided
into smaller parts. I like this approach so the attendees won't need to run
between different floors. This was kinda the same on YAPC::Brazil 2012 (what
a great place btw :). It is very close to the Parus Business center.

## M17: Contemporary Art Center

<div>
    <div style="text-align:center">
    <img src="/images/venue/m17.jpg" />
    </div>
</div>

[Contemporary Art Center](http://m17.com.ua/en) has a big hall mainly dedicated
for exibitions. The main downside is that they cannot be divided into parts with
good sound isolation.

## That's it

So this is it. Now we are deciding which one is going to win. Help us decide
using the comment section below.

Thank you!
