Title: YAPC::Europe 2013. Week minus 27. Current progress
Tags: Perl, yapc, kiev

Time definitely flies. We're almost the half way towards our journey's destination
-- YAPC::Europe 2013 in Kiev. Here is a quick wrap-up of the current progress
and the future plans.

[cut]

=head2 Venue and dates

In December we've signed up
a L<venue|http://act.yapc.eu/ye2013/venue/index.html> contract and settled the
dates: 12-14 August of 2013.

=head2 Infrustructure

We've set up and opened the website L<http://yapc.eu/2013>. We try to keep it
nice looking and updated.

=head2 Announcements

We've been announcing the conference at every conference/workshop we've been
to: L<OSDN|http://conference.osdn.org.ua/>, L<Provectus IT. Expert Day: Modern Perl|http://www.provectus-it.com/blog/news/24>, L<Saint Perl|http://event.yapcrussia.org/saintperl4/>, L<FOSDEM|http://www.slideshare.net/sharifulin/yapceurope-2013-announce> and almost every Kiev.pm meeting :)

=begin html

<iframe src="http://www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/16306871" width="427" height="356" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" style="border:1px solid #CCC;border-width:1px 1px 0;margin-bottom:5px" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen> </iframe> <div style="margin-bottom:5px"> <strong> <a href="http://www.slideshare.net/sharifulin/yapceurope-2013-announce" title="YAPC::Europe 2013" target="_blank">YAPC::Europe 2013</a> </strong> from <strong><a href="http://www.slideshare.net/sharifulin" target="_blank">Anatoly Sharifulin</a></strong> </div>

=end html

=head2 Media

Slowly but surely we are starting the campaign of announcing the conference
through various websites and media interested in open source and programming in
general, without limiting us only to the Perl resources. If you want to help
promoting the conference, L<let us know|mailto:mail@yapcrussia.org>!

=head2 Guest Speakers

We're contacting several Perl hackers and negotiating their visits to Kiev.

=head2 River Cruise

We've found the big enough ship for the attendees and working towards signing
the contract with the cruise company. This is going to be fun!

=head2 Partners Programme

Yes, we are doing this. This means you don't have to leave your partner at home,
bring them to Kiev too!

=head2 Sponsors

We've contacted over 40 companies and individuals who could be interested in
sponsoring a Perl event. So far we've received a little bit more than 20
answers, 9 of them were positive. If you or your company got an email from us,
please, tell us something! No is still a good answer :)

A big THANK YOU to everyone who is helping us making this conference possible.
If you want to support Perl and its community, please
L<join the club|http://act.yapc.eu/ye2013/sponsorship/index.html>!

=head2 Current Statistics

We have over 90 registered members and 5 sponsors so far. Thank you all!

=head2 Early Bird and Send-a-Newbie programme

Save yourself some euros by L<buying a ticket|http://act.yapc.eu/ye2013/purchase/>
before the 1st of April. And if you still cannot afford the ticket, take a look at the
L<Send-a-Newbie|http://www.send-a-newbie.enlightenedperl.org/applications.html>
programme and see if you can apply.

=head2 Future

More attendees, more media, more sponsors and more awesomeness!
