Title: I am looking for a Perl job in Europe
Tags: job, europe, perl

I am looking for a Perl job in Europe. I have tried searching through
jobs.perl.org and other websites in order to find the best match, but
unfortunately they all seemed like huge bureaucracy enterprises. To make things
easy I am going to describe what I would like to be working on, with whom and
why you might want to hire me.

[cut]

A bit about myself.

I have Perl projects on L<GitHub|http://github.com/vti> since 2008, so there is
some proof I have been programmming in Perl for more than couple years. Of
course those projects cannot correlate to the real world problems and cannot be
assumed as a proof I can do the real things. But most of them were extracted
from the real projects, so there is an indirect connection anyways :)

I do love open source, I want to beleive I am a part of Perl community, though
I don't know which part :) I have organized several real life Perl events,
I also publish a monthly Perl magazine L<http://pragmaticperl.com> in Russian.

What motivates me.

The best motivation for me is the responsibility. The more I have the more
productive I am. That means that the ideal scenario is that I am a lead
developer working with other people on a project from nothing to production.

How I work.

I strongly beleive that there are things among intuition and debugging that help
write better software, like testing and following the best practices and
principles. I know what things make the process easier, more predictable and
cheaper to alter in the future. I am also trying to be more pragmatic over
modern.

Ideal scenario.

I would like to work in a small company where everybody can affect the overall
performance and thus everybody is motivated. I want my work to be valuable.

Experience.

I have built several projects from zero to hero with a team of developers. Those
projects range from in-house monitoring systems to public credit card processing
gateways. I have seen some shit.

Things I suck at.

I suck at the interviews and probably communication.

Why I want to relocate.

I like learning new human languages and assimilate fairly easy. The current
quality of my life doesn't satisfy me, though it's not about the salary.

If you think you need someone like me,
L<drop me a line|mailto:viacheslav.t@gmail.com> for more details.
